.\" -*- nroff -*-
.TH MTGCARD 1 "May 2020" "mtgcard man page"

.SH NAME
mtgcard \- command-line MTG card viewer and searcher

.\" ====================================================================
.SH SYNOPSIS
.\" ====================================================================
.
.SY mtgcard
.OP \-gGcRv
.OP \-\-set SETCODE
.OP \-\-format FORMAT
.I name
.YS
.
.SY mtgcard
.OP \-l
.OP \-qgGrv
.OP \-\-sort KEY
.OP \-L LIMIT
.I query
.YS
.
.SY mtgcard
.RB [ \-n
|
.BR \-N ]
.OP \-qgGrv
.OP \-\-sort KEY
.OP \-L LIMIT
.I query
.YS
.
.SY mtgcard
.OP \-i NR_COLUMNS
.OP cgGrv
.OP \-\-sort KEY
.OP \-L LIMIT
.I query
.YS
.
.SY mtgcard
.OP \-v
.B \-\-update-db

.\" ====================================================================
.SH DESCRIPTION
.\" ====================================================================
.
.B mtgcard
Command-line MTG card viewer and searcher.

.\" ====================================================================
.SH OPTIONS
.\" ====================================================================
.
.HP
.B \-h
.TQ
.B \-\-help
Show this help message and exit.
.
.TP
.B \-l
List card summaries by query.
.
.TP
.B \-iN
List card images by query.
.
.TP
.B \-n
List card names by query.
.
.TP
.B \-N
List card names, of all sides, by query.
.
.TP
.B \-g
Disable color.
.
.TP
.B \-G
Enable color (default).
.
.TP
.B \-q
Disable header row in listing.
.
.TP
.B \-c
Compact mode. Hide card image in card prints.
.
.TP
.BI --sort\  KEY
Specify sort key. KEY is one of 'name', 'cmc', or 'price'.
.
.TP
.B \-r
Reverse sort order.
.
.TP
.BI \-L\  LIMIT
Set a listing limit.
.
.TP
.B \-v
For non-listings: show extra info such as price, printings, and legalities.
\&
For listings: show matches count.
\&
For update: show update process.
.
.TP
.B \-\-update-db
Update the local MTG database.

.
.\" ====================================================================
.SH SEARCH SYNTAX
.\" ====================================================================
.
\&
.SS
Query syntax
\&
.IP
condition [[or] condition ...]
.P
A space separating condition symbols implies "AND". An "AND" has higher
presedence than "OR".
For example,
.IP
mana=g cmc=1 or mana=r cmc=2
.P
means (1) '1 green mana AND 1 converted mana cost' OR (2) '1 red mana AND 1
converted mana cost'.      
.
.SS
Condition syntax
\&
.IP
<keyword><op><value>
.P
keyword list:
.IP
    c[olors]
    cmc
    f[ormat], legal
    layout
    loyalty
    mana
    name
    power
    price
    rarity
    set
    t[ype]
    text
    toughness
    year
.
.P
op list:
.IP
:, =, !=, <, >, <=, >=
.
.\" ====================================================================
.SH EXAMPLES
.\" ====================================================================
.
\&
.P
List either (1) artifact cards legal in vintage or (2) any card legal in
commander:
.IP
.EX
mtgcard -l format:vintage type:artifact or f:commander
.EE
.
.P
List images of cards in rows of four with colors red, black, or colorless, and
with converted manacost 3:
.IP
.EX
mtgcard -i4 mana<=rb cmc=3
.EE
.
.P
List names of cards with colors red, black, or colorless, or with converted
manacost 3:
.IP
.EX
mtgcard -n mana<=rb or cmc=3
.EE


.\" ====================================================================
.SH MANA SYMBOLS                                                     
.\" ====================================================================
.

.P
basic mana symbols:
.IP
    {W}, {U}, {B}, {R}, {G}, {C}
.P
the numerical symbols:
.IP
    {0}, {1}, {2}, {3}, {4}, ...
.P
the variable symbol:
.IP
    {X}
.P
the hybrid symbols:
.IP
    {W/U}, {W/B}, {U/B}, {U/R}, {B/R}, {B/G}, {R/G}, {R/W}, {G/W}, {G/U}
.P
the monocolored hybrid symbols:
.IP
    {2/W}, {2/U}, {2/B}, {2/R}, {2/G}
.P
the Phyrexian mana symbols:
.IP
    {W/P}, {U/P}, {B/P}, {R/P}, {G/P}
.P
the snow symbol:
.IP
    {S}
\&
.TP
Note:
Any symbol without a '/' can be used without braces (e.g., 'w' is the same
as '{W}').

.\" ====================================================================
.SH AUTHOR
.\" ====================================================================
.
<yoshi1@tutanota.com>
.SH BUGS
Submit bugs to https://github.com/yoshi1123/mtgcard/issues
.
.SH AVAILABILITY
.B mtgcard
is available from https://github.com/yoshi1123/mtgcard
.\" .SH SEE ALSO
.\" .BR chattr (1)
